## GPS Signal Acquisition for HLS
2025-07-07 (Published on 2025-10-10) Digital Systems Lab., AIT

For English description, please refer to [README.en.md](README.en.md).

----

### Abstract

This repository includes an HLS implementation of GNSS (GPS) signal acquisition using
the serial search method, optimized for Vitis HLS, along with its evaluation and
validation environment.

The base program is available for download at the following page:

https://www.rf-world.jp/bn/RFW13/RFW13DLS.shtml

You will find a brief explanation and evaluation results of the implemented circuit in
the following article:

> Naoki Fujieda, Rei Yokoyama, and Takuji Ebinuma: A flexible FPGA implementation
> of GNSS signal acquisition circuit using high level synthesis, 16th International
> Workshop on Advances in Networking and Computing (WANC-16) held in conjunction with
> CANDAR '25, pp. 365-367 (11/2025).
> [DOI: [10.1109/CANDARW68385.2025.00070](https://doi.org/10.1109/CANDARW68385.2025.00070)

The archive of the syntheses logs (`autobuild/log`) collected in the evaluations for
the above paper is available at the following URL:

https://aitech.ac.jp/~dslab/nf/gpsacq-hls/autobuild_logs.zip

### Organization of Repository

The hierarchy of the repository is as follows:

- `autobuild`: scripts for automation of high level and logic syntheses
  - `bit`: folder to store generated .bit files 
  - `ip_dir`: temporary folder for IP core
  - `log`: folder to save syntheses logs
  - `autobuild_hls.rb`: automation script for Vitis HLS
  - `autobuild_hls_new.rb`: automation script for Vitis HLS (w/ Vitis Unified IDE)
  - `autobuild_syn.rb`: automation script for Vivado
  - `build.tcl`: script called by Vitis HLS
  - `build_vivado.tcl`: script called by Vivado
- `jupyter`: notebook and required files for evaluation on real machine
  - `bits`: target hardware overlays for evaluation
    - `search[PP][FF][CC].bit`: bitstream file of FPGA
    - `search[PP][FF][CC].hwh`: hardware hand-off file
  - `gps_64k.bin`: GPS signal data for test
  - `gpsacq_triple.ipynb`: body of the notebook
- `codelut.cpp`: LUT definition for C/A code
- `define.hpp`: definition file for both the circuit and the main function
- `gpsacq_hw.cpp`: description of the function 'search,' the HLS target
- `gpsacq_main.cpp`: description of the main function as a testbench
- `multlut.cpp`: LUT definition for parallel multiplication
- `ncolut.cpp`: LUT definition for increment of carrier NCO
- `params.hpp`: parameters for degrees of parallelization, generated by autobuild_hls.rb
- `README.md`: Japanese version of the README file
- `README.en.md`: this file
- `LICENSE.txt`: license information

The `jupyter/bits` folder include all of the hardware overlays used in the experiment.
A 6-digit number at the end of the file name corresponds to the values of the degree of
parallelization P, F, and C, listed in two digits each.
For example, the `search160133.bit` is for the case of P = 16, F = 1, and C = 33, or the
total degree of parallelization of 528.

### Experiments on real machine

Experiments on real machine using prepared hardware overlays can be conducted in the
following procedure.

1. Upload the contents of the `jupyter` folder to a PYNQ board.
2. Open `gpsacq_triple.ipynb` on Jupyter Notebook of the board.
3. Execute the cells in order (the last cell may be skipped; it is for debug)

By default, the notebook targets all of the .bit files in the `bits` folder.
All of the evaluations may take several hours.
In particular, evaluation of the case of the degree of parallelization of 1 will take
approximately 25 minutes.
If needed, please reduce the number of .bit files to be uploaded or modify the code to
enumerate the files.

We evaluated the circuits on PYNQ v3.0.1.
Though we have not tested, they may work on the previous or next version (v2.7.0 or
v3.1.2) of PYNQ.
However, if you are going to use .xsa files, v3.0.1 or later is required.

### High level and logic syntheses

The source code in this repository can be high level or logic synthesized by the
following procedure.

1. Create a new project on Vitis HLS
  - The target function is `search` in `gpsacq_hw.cpp`
  - The C testbench is `gpsacq_main.cpp`
  - The target device (board) is either PYNQ-Z1 or PYNQ-Z2
2. Run high level synthesis
  - If needed, modify the value of `PAR_*` in `params.cpp`
  - If needed, run "C Simulation" to check if the program is correctly working
  - Run "C Synthesis"
  - Run "Export HDL"
3. Run logic synthesis
  - Create a new project on Vivado, targetting PYNQ-Z1 or PYNQ-Z2
  - Add the folder of the Vitis HLS project to IP Repository
    - If preparing for automation, add `autobuild/ip_dir` to IP Repository
    - In this case, extract the contents of `Export.zip` to that folder
  - Run "Create Block Design"
  - Add a "ZYNQ7 Processing System" and then "Run Block Automation"
  - Double-click "ZYNQ7 Processing System" and activate an HP port from "PS/PL Configuration"
  - Add a "search" and then "Run Connection Automation"
  - Add an "AXI Direct Memory Access" and then double-click it
    - Uncheck "Enable Scatter Gather Engine" and "Enable Write Channel"
    - Set "Width of Buffer Length Register" as 15 (or more)
    - Set "Stream Data Width" of "Read Channel" as 8
  - "Run Connection Automation"
  - Connect M_AXIS_MM2S of "AXI Direct Memory Access" to sig of "Search"
  - Follow the usual block design procedure until "Generate Bitstream"
  - Save an .xsa file from "Export Hardware" > "Include Bitstream"
    - Alternatively, extract .bit and .hwh files from the project and rename them
  
### Automated high level and logic syntheses

The `autobuild` folder includes Ruby scripts that automate high level and logic
syntheses, changing the parameters for the degree of parallelization.
As the scripts support Windows only, an installation of Windows version of Ruby is
required, which can be installed by RubyInstaller (for example).

Before launching the automated syntheses, project folders of Vitis HLS and Vivado
must be prepared right under the repository, by following the procedure of the
"High level and logic syntheses" section.
The standard names of the folders are `hls_proj` (HLS) and `fpga_proj` (logic).

The script of automated high level synthesis is `autobuild_hls.rb`.
Please adjust the values of the constants from `HLS_DIR` (7th line) to `BASE_DIR`
(11th line) according to your environment.
If you are using Vitis Unified IDE, added from Vitis HLS 2023.2, use the new script
`autobuild_hls_new.rb` instead.
In this case, the constatnts to be adjusted are from `VITIS_DIR` (9th line) to
`BASE_DIR` (15th line).
For each pair of P and F, the script repeatedly conducts high level synthesis while
increasing C.
When the number of required LUTs exceeds 50,000, syntheses for further C are skipped,
as the circuit is considered too large to be implemented.

The script of automated logic synthesis is `autobuild_syn.rb`.
Please adjust the values of the constants from `VIVADO_DIR` (7th line) to `BASE_DIR`
(11th line) according to your environment.
The targets of logic synthesis are determined by HLS logs in the `autobuild/log`
folder.
Logic synthesis will be skipped when the II of the main loop is more than 1 or the
number of required LUTs exceeds 30,000.

### Copyright

The C++ and Ruby source codes in this repository are developed by
[Naoki FUJIEDA](https://aitech.ac.jp/~dslab/nf/index.en.html).
Copyright is reserved by the Digital Systems Laboratory, Aichi Institute of Technology.
These files are licensed under the New BSD license.
The code includes contributions by Rei Yokoyama, an alumnus of the lab.

Copyright (C) 2024-2026 Digital Systems Laboratory. All rights reserved.

The C++ files 'gpsacq_hw.cpp' and 'gpsacq_main.cpp' are derived from the program
'gpsacq.c' developed by Takuji Ebinuma and available at the following URL:

https://www.rf-world.jp/bn/RFW13/RFW13DLS.shtml

We have obtained individual permission from the original author for the secondary use
of 'gpsacq.c' and publishing the derivative work under the above (New BSD) license.
For secondary use of that program, please contact the original author. Also, please
review the disclaimer on the download page above.

gpsacq.c: Copyright (C) 2011 Takuji Ebinuma

See the LICENSE.txt file for more information.